=Practice exercises=
1.1 What are the three main purposes of an operating system?
      ' Managing a computer's hardware
          - Allocating resources 
          - Security
      ' User interface
      ' Service software
      ' I/O Devices
          - Printer, mouse, etc.


1.3 What is the main difficulty that a programmer must overcome in
    writing an operating system for a real-time environment?
      ' Real-time enviroment = Interact with OS in real-time
      ' Some task have to be executed, and may interupt others


1.4 Keeping in mind the various definitions ofoperating system,
    consider whether the operating system should include applications
    such as webbrowsers and mail programs. Argue both that it should and
    that it should not, and support your answers.
      ' Including a lot of desirable programs, can lead to ease of use
        for the end user, but for users who have specific prefered
        software that they won't it can lead using resources without
        any need for it.
      ' Windows 100 apps that you can't uninstall


1.5 How does the distinction between kernel mode and user mode
    function as a rudimentary form of protection (security)?
      ' It makes sure that the user can't execute code
        that can be harmful for the functionality of the computer
      ' Making sure that one user can access the files of another user
      ' Encapsulation: Kernel takes care of the complex things


1.6 Which of the following instructions should be privileged?
  a.  Set value of timer.
  b.  Read the clock.
  c.  Clear memory.
  d.  Issue a trap instruction.
  e.  Turn off interrupts.
  f.  Modify entries in device-status table.
  g.  Switch from user to kernel mode.
  h.  Access I/O device.


1.8 Some CPUs provide for more than two modes of operation.
    What are two possible uses of these multiple modes?
      ' Some middle layers can be made, for some modes to have
        some priveledges, but not all priveledges
      ' Virtualization may use it, so it can use some kernel
        programs, but not all


1.10 Give two reasons why caches are useful. What problems do they solve?
     What problems do they cause? If a cache can be made as large as
     the device for which it is caching (for instance, a cache as large
     as a disk), why not make it that large and eliminate the device?
      ' They're very expensive, and programs could easily write
        over eachothers data
      ' It also would defeat the purpose of having the cache closer
        to the CPU than the main memory


1.11 Distinguish between the client–server and peer-to-peer models of '
     distributed systems.
      ' Client-server: Client queries request and server reponds
      ' Peer-to-peer: All peers both query request and respond


=Exercises=

1.12 How do clustered systems differ from multiprocessor systems?
     What is required for two machines belonging to a cluster to cooperate
     to provide a highly available service?
      ' Clustered system
          - Network of entities, therefore having multiple CPUs
          - Very important the the entity have the same data
          - Good for servers, if one entity fails,
            than another can take over
      ' Multiprocessor system
          - One system with multiple CPUs
          - All data in the same memory, therefore no prob organizing data



1.14 What is the purpose of interrupts? How does an interrupt differ fro
     a trap? Can traps be generated intentionally by a user program?
     If so, for what purpose?
      ' Interupts
          - Hardware
          - Processes can be stopped when ever, using interupts
      ' Trap
          - Software trying to make an interupt
          - Kind of exceptions (Divided by 0, could reach memory)


1.16 Direct memory access is used for high-speed I/O devices in order to 
     avoid increasing the CPU’s execution load.
  a.  How does theCPUinterface with the device to coordinate thetransfer?
          - Via the DMA (Direct Memory Access)
  b.  How does theCPUknow when the memory operations are com-plete?
          - The DMA sends an interupts
  c.  TheCPUis allowed to execute other programs while the DMA controlle
      is transferring data. Does this process interfere with the 
      execution of the user programs? If so, describe what forms 
      of interference are caused.
          - The bus is used by the DMA to access main memory, so
            using the bus at the same time, would cause in slow down


1.19 Rank the following storage systems from slowest to fastest:
  a.  Hard-disk drives
  b.  Registers
  c.  Optical disk
  d.  Main memory
  e.  Nonvolatile memory (SSD according to the book)
  f.  Magnetic tapes
  g.  Cache

      ' b, g, d, e, a, c, f

1.24 Describe some of the challenges of designing operating systems
     for mobile devices compared with designing operating systems for
     traditional PCs
      ' Prioritizing effiency over speed, due to the battery
      ' Lower specs
